# sum-and-range

This is an experimental project based on [the introduction of Marijn Haverbeke's *Eloquent JavaScript*](http://eloquentjavascript.net/00_intro.html). In his introduction, he proposes the theoretical JavaScript code `console.log(sum(range(1, 10)));  // 55`. Since JavaScript doesn't have native Math functions for `sum()` or Array functions for `range()`, I decided to see how difficult (for a beginning programmer) it would be to write my own functions for these.

### `range()`

In theory, this function could be an addition to `Array.prototype`. It takes as its parameters the `start`ing and `end`ing points of a numeric range, pushes each number in that range onto an array, and then returns the array.

**Update (1/27/2017):** Added a third parameter `increment` to `range()` that takes a default value (ES6) of `1`. `increment` determines the spacing between numbers in the array (e.g., [1, 2, 3] vs. [1, 3, 5], etc.). The implementation has also been updated to allow for a negative increment, which would produce an array that counts down (e.g., [3, 2, 1]). `start` and `stop` can also take negative integers and `range()` will still construct the array properly.

### `sum()`

Similar to `range()`, `sum()` could be an extension of the native Math library (Note: Math does not have a .prototype object). It takes an array-based range of numbers (in this case, generated by the `range()` function mentioned above), cycles through each index of the array adding the number at that position to the previous numbers, and finally returns a `total` (or sum) of all the numbers in that range.

### Addendum: `product()'

Based on the *Eloquent JavaScript* example, my intent was only to create `range()` and `sum()` functions, but when playing with the `sum()` function, I realized it would not be difficult at all to tweak `sum()` to instead multiply all the numbers of an array. The only differences were initializing the `total` variable to `1` instead of `0` to avoid multiplication-by-zero errors and then using the multiplication operator instead of addition. Thus, `product()` takes the same parameters as `sum()` for its input and similarly returns a multiplied `total`.


Matt Layton
1/25/2017
